## MBTA Departure Board for North and South Stations

Create a departure board similar to [ https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:North_Station_departure_board.JPG ]

Board should show

  * the predicted departures at North and South stations
  * the train destinations
  * departure times
  * the track numbers
  * boarding status (e.g. 'Boarding', 'All Aboard', 'Delayed')
  * real time updates for predicted departures

## Running the example

  * npm install
  * npm run keys
  * npm start
  * https://localhost:8889/?key=your\_api\_key , or, 
    add your API key to public/js/app.js
      - without a valid API key live stream will not work
      - this is to prevent having to store my API key in the source coe

## Overall Approach ( Naive version )

   1. Initialize board with predictions for North and South stations.
     1.1 Retrieve list of current predictions
     1.2 Filter for predictions that have departure times
     1.3 Flatten into a simpler structure for use in templates
     
   2. Open stream for live receiving prediction updates
     2.1 For each trip in stream
       2.1.1 If current list has a matching prediction, then update 
             existing with new departure time / status.  Match is performed using trip ID
       2.1.2 If current list does not have a matching prediction, push the new prediction onto the list
             ( it's a new upcoming departure )
   
   3. Prune predictions list by removing predictions whose departure times are null or are in the past


#### Compromises, Hacks, Ommitted Functionality 

   * Boarding status not displayed.   Not sure whether updates contain statuses or whether
     they should be estimated using departure times 
   * Naively assumes that route name "CR-Newburyport" has the destination of Newburyport,
     when in fact it could be either "Newburyport" or "Rockport"
   * Extracts track number from end of prediction id.   Not sure if that's correct
   * Some vehicle ids look like ```block_2151_schedBasedVehicle```.  In this case
     I extract the integer and use that as the train id.   Not sure that's correct. 
   * Initial board has fewer entries compared to boards at mbta.com
     
## More complete version

On branch backfill-departures-using-schedules

Initial batch of predictions has only a few departures with times.  So board looks a little
sparse, and on weekends can be empty.  A more complete initial list is generated by
backfilling departure times using trip schedules, since

The naive version is missing departures that show up on ( https://mbta.com/stops/place-north )
and ( https://mbta.com/stops/place-sstat ).

The initial batch of predictions only has times for departures that are close in time.

So this version backfills the missing departure times by retrieving schedules, and using
the station departure times to backfill the initial predictions.

## Excuses

It's hard to test the update stream on weekends because there are so few updates.  So there may be
issues.

This is my first use of Vue.  I'm not a front end developer, so I chose the simplest framework that 
has data bindings, but still there was a learning curve, and it's mostly cut and paste from a 
"Hello World"

Still feeling clumsy with the MBTA API, and I know I'm not using it very well.

HTML template not very DRY.  I opted to leave it that way rather than create component in app.js,
since app.js already has plenty of code.
